Hi there, imagine you would like to establish a new
venture, as you have identified a clear opportunity,
and written a brilliant business plan. You will likely
need quite some money from shareholders, before you can
actually get started, as will be explained in this
video.
The two main providers of financing are shareholders, and debt holders,
typically banks. But as a start-up, getting bank debt
will prove challenging, as a banks hardly take risks.
They want to be relatively sure that you can repay
loans for which you need a stable opening cashflow,
or enough security, or collateral. It is similar to
private individuals pledging their house to get a
mortgage loan, and you often need to show a
slip. So companies will first need to raise money
from shareholders. A shareholder is someone who invests money
in return for a piece of ownership, usually shareholders
have voting rights proportionate to their shareholdings.
The first shareholder will likely be yourself, investing
your savings as the founder, yet this will generally
not be sufficient. Next is the famous three F's,
family, friends, and fools. While you would commonly
succeed in convincing people close to you, as they are
confident you will succeed, this will be tougher
with others, as it is a high risk investment. Or
you could send out a business plan to professional
investment firms, called venture capitalists, or private
equity providers who invest money in promising
companies, with an aim to sell their stakes later at
large gain. They provide smart money as they will
actively try to boost the venture's performance by
offering hands-on advice and support. A well known
name is Seqouia Capital who invested in firms like Apple
and Google. Or you may look for business angels, which
are wealthy private individuals, or for a big
company e.g. Big Pharma often take stakes in bio-tech
start-ups. And employees may become shareholders too,
both in large established firms and in start-ups, where shares may
entail a large chunk of their compensation.
Governments too may become shareholders, in order to avoid
bankruptcy of large firms, they may decide to bail them
out and basically nationalise firms. Alternatively
governments may offer all kinds of financing
schemes such as subsidies, or loan guarantees to
support innovative ventures. More mature firms
might even consider to go public, and list on the stock
market. This allows for raising a huge amount of
money, like with a Facebook IPO. Yet it requires a
burdensome expensive process. Similarly,
crowdfunding offers access to public money, by
pitching business proposals, investors either get shares,
provide a loan, do a gift or get paid in kind .
As you can tell shareholders are critical in every
business, without them you can't get started, and
substantial investment from shareholders also acts
as a signal towards other potential financiers.
Remember though,  that they seek a proper return
on their equity investments, so you better make sure
that the business is ultimately successful.